########### CERTIFY ###########
# $Id$
# $Date$

# Description:
Certify is a toolset for managing system security.  It includes
scripts for hardening and checking system security, as well as
scripts for detecting and tracking disk drives.  Cron files are
provided to automate reccuring tasks.

Certify is intended for environments where security is routinely
audited, such as government facilities with classified information.

Certify is not an all encompassing security configuration tool.
Unlike "Fortify", which overrides many operating system settings,
certify manages security posture.  Certify attempts to make sure
vendor supplied tools are properly implemented.

It contains two primary Python scripts, "harden.py" & "check.py",
for managing security settings.  Harden applies security settings,
while check reports on security findings.

The package includes diskscan.sh, a shell script which scans the
local system for disk drives.  The results are sent to the system
log.  

The original driving force for developing certify was an interest
in simplifying the process of system certification.  Before certify
the system certification process took two people, one ISSO and one
System Administrator, several hours to complete.  With certify only
the ISSO is required, and by using tools such as Splunk, all of the
logs can be quickly reviewed.


# Dependencies:
The following Python rpm's are required.
	python-argparse (EPEL)
	pexpect
	python-paramiko
	lshw


# Install:
Install or upgrade the rpm:

If you have certify in a yum repository, install as follows:

	yum install certify
		or
	yum upgrade certify

If you do not access to a yum repository, get a copy of the latest
rpm and use localinstall as follows.

	yum --localinstall certify<version>.rpm
		or
	yum --localupdate certify<version>.rpm

Warning, be sure to change the password entry in /root/.my.cnf.certify
to match the mysql user, "diskscan", account password.


#Package list:
/etc/cron.daily/certify_md5chk.cron
/etc/cron.daily/diskscan.cron
/etc/cron.weekly/certify_check.cron
/etc/cron.monthly/certify_harden.cron
/etc/gconf/gconf.xml.mandatory/%gconf-tree.xml
/etc/gdm/banner.png
/usr/local/certify/certify_config.py
/usr/local/certify/check.py
/usr/local/certify/harden.py
/usr/local/certify/testPassword.py
/usr/local/sbin/diskscan.sh
/usr/share/doc/certify-3.2/banner.png.llnl
/usr/share/doc/certify-3.2/banner.png.sample
/usr/share/doc/certify-3.2/readme


# System Hardening:
./harden.py -h
usage: harden.py [-h] [-i] [-l] [--logfile LOGFILE]

If no arguments, all security options will be performed

optional arguments:
  -h, --help         show this help message and exit
  -i, --interactive  interactive mode (default: False)
  -l, --log          create log (default: False)
  --logfile LOGFILE  log file name (default: /var/log/certify)


# Certification Test:
./check.py -h
usage: check.py [-h] [-i] [-c] [-l] [--logfile LOGFILE]

If no arguments, all security tests will be performed

optional arguments:
  -h, --help         show this help message and exit
  -i, --interactive  interactive mode (default: False)
  -c, --check        md5 check (default: False)
  -l, --log          create log (default: False)
  --logfile LOGFILE  log file name (default: /var/log/certify)



# Report Problems:
If you run into problems contact:
	Rich O'Hare
	ohare2@llnl.gov
	925-422-5897

